## Different kinds of linear maps

Before we start, notice that all TVS's mentioned here are Banach spaces (for example, $\mathbb{R}^n$).

### Linear maps and multilinear maps

For Banach spaces $\mathbf{E}$ and $\mathbf{F}$, the set of all continuous linear mappings is denoted by $L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$. If we have $\mathbf{F}=\mathbf{E}$, then we get the set of endomorphims, where $\operatorname{End}(\mathbf{E})=L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{E})$, or sometimes we write $L(\mathbf{E})$.

The set of continuous $k$-multilinear maps, namely
$$
\psi: \underbrace{\mathbf{E} \times \mathbf{E} \times \cdots \times \mathbf{E}}_{k-\text{times}} \to \mathbf{F}
$$
of $\mathbf{E}$ into $\mathbf{F}$, will be denoted by $L^k(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$. The continuous multilinear maps of the product $\mathbf{E}_1\times\cdots\times\mathbf{E}_k$ into $\mathbf{F}$ are denoted by $L(\mathbf{E}_1,\cdots,\mathbf{E}_k;\mathbf{F})$.

### Special cases of multilinear maps

There are two special cases that are useful in the following texts. We will describe them and offer notations.

#### Symmetric

Symmetric multilinear maps are literally order-changing free. For example, $f \in L^2(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$ will be symmetric if $f(x,y)=f(y,x)$ no matter what. We have a formal statement.

> A function of $n$ variables is symmetric if its value is the same no matter the order of its arguments.

The subset of $L^k(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$, which contains all symmetric maps, will be denoted by $L^k_s(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$. Here, $s$ means symmetric of course.

#### Alternating

An alternating multilinear map got value zero whenever two arguments are equal. For example, if you treat the row of a squared $n$-matrix as an element of $\mathbb{R}^n$, then the determinant of the matrix is alternating. We have a formal statement as well.

>A multilinear map $f \in L^k(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$ is said to be alternating if whenever there exists $1 \leq i \neq j \leq n$ such that $x_i=x_j$, then $f(x_1,\cdots,x_i,\cdots,x_j,\cdots,x_k)=0$

The subset of $L^k(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$, which contains all alternating maps, will be denoted by $L^k_s(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$.

### Isomorphisms

Are not always enough. Continuity is always considered. A linear morphism $f \in L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$, where both $f$ and $f^{-1}$ are continuous, is called a *toplinear isomorphism*.

The subset of $L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$ which contains all toplinear isomorphisms will be denoted by $\operatorname{Lis}(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$. Again, if we have $\mathbf{F}=\mathbf{E}$, then we get the set of automorphisms, which will be denoted by $\operatorname{Laut}(\mathbf{E})$. One can also verify that $\operatorname{Laut}(\mathbf{E})$ is precisely a subset of $\operatorname{End}(\mathbf{E})$ whose elements are invertible.

## Analysis facts about continuous linear maps

*We are not proving these theorems here. But you are able to find proofs on the Internet with ease.*

### Sufficient condition on when a function is toplinear

> If $\mathbf{E}$ an $\mathbf{F}$ are Banach spaces and $f \in L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$ is a continuous linear isomorphism, then the inverse isomorphism $f^{-1}\in L(\mathbf{F},\mathbf{E})$ is also continuous. That is, $f$ is toplinear.

This is a corollary to the **open mapping theorem**. In fact, $\mathbf{E}$ and $\mathbf{F}$ don't even have to be Banach. Instead, the result holds for all $F$-spaces. That said, to prove open mapping theorem, norm is not required but complete metric.

> Suppose $\mathbf{F}_1$ and $\mathbf{F}_2$ are two closed subspace of $\mathbf{E}$, where $\mathbf{E}=\mathbf{F}_1 \oplus \mathbf{F}_2$, then the map
> $$
> \begin{aligned}
> \mathbf{F}_1 \times \mathbf{F}_2 &\to \mathbf{E} \\
> (x_1,x_2)&\mapsto x_1+x_2
> \end{aligned}
> $$
> is a toplinear isomorphism.

This is a corollary to the **closed graph theorem**. Again, this holds as long as $\mathbf{E}$ is an $F$-space.

#### Remarks

If $\mathbf{F}$ is a closed subspace of $\mathbf{E}$, and there exists a closed complementary $\mathbf{F}_1$ such that $\mathbf{E}$ is toplinearly isomorphic to $\mathbf{F} \times \mathbf{F}_1$ under the natural mapping, we shall say that $\mathbf{F}$ *splits* $\mathbf{E}$. In particular, every finite dimensional subspace of $\mathbf{E}$ splits if $\mathbf{E}$ is complete.

### Hahn-Banach theorem (weak form)

> Let $x \neq 0$ be an element of $\mathbf{E}$. Then there exists a continuous linear map $\lambda$ of $\mathbf{E}$ into $\mathbb{R}$ such that $\lambda(x) \neq 0$.

The map $\lambda$ can be constructed via Zorn's lemma. You may be interested in [how to use Zorn's lemma by Gowers](https://gowers.wordpress.com/2008/08/12/how-to-use-zorns-lemma/).

## Topology of $L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$

For $T \in L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$, the topology is induced by norm. In fact, the norm is defined by
$$
\lVert T \rVert=\inf\{c \geq 0: \lVert Tx \rVert \leq c \lVert x \rVert,x \in \mathbf{E}\}
$$

This norm makes $L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$ a Banach space.

For multilinear maps, the norm is defined in a similar way. With that being said, for a multilinear continuous map
$$
T: \mathbf{E}_1 \times\cdots\times\mathbf{E}_r \to \mathbf{F}
$$
we have
$$
\lVert T \rVert = \inf\{c \geq 0:\lVert T(x_1,\cdots,x_r)\rVert\leq c\lVert{x_1}\rVert\cdots\lVert{x_r}\rVert\}
$$

### Propositions

> Let $\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F}$ be two Banach spaces. Then the set of toplinear isomorphisms $\operatorname{Lis}(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$ is open in $L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$.

*Proof.* If $\operatorname{Lis}(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$ is empty, then we are done. If not, we need to prove that $\operatorname{Laut}(\mathbf{E})$ is open in $L(\mathbf{E})$. Given $W \in \operatorname{Laut}(\mathbf{E})$, we shall prove that there exists some ball $B(W,r)$ centered at $W$ with radius $r>0$ such that $B(W,r) \subset \operatorname{Laut}(\mathbf{E})$, or equivalently, if we have $\lVert U-W \rVert<r$, then $U \in \operatorname{Laut}(\mathbf{E})$.

For $U \in L(\mathbf{E})$ such that $\lVert U \rVert <1$,  we have
$$
(\operatorname{id}_\mathbf{E}-U)^{-1}=\sum_{n=0}^{\infty}U^n
$$
since $L(\mathbf{E})$ is Banach. By writing $U_1=UW^{-1}$, we get
$$
(UW^{-1})^{-1}=\sum_{n=0}^{\infty}(\operatorname{id}_\mathbf{E}-UW^{-1})^n
$$
as long as $\lVert \operatorname{id}_\mathbf{E}-UW^{-1}\rVert <1$. Notice that we have
$$
\lVert W-U\rVert \leq \lVert \operatorname{id}_\mathbf{E}-UW^{-1}\rVert\cdot\lVert W \rVert<\lVert W \rVert,
$$
our proof is done by picking $r=\lVert W \rVert$, since once we have $U \in B(W,\lVert W \rVert)$, $U_1=UW^{-1}$ is invertible, which implies $U=U_1W$ is invertible as well.

---

> For Banach spaces $\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F},\mathbf{G}$, the following bilinear maps are continuous.
> $$
> L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})\times L(\mathbf{F},\mathbf{G}) \to L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{G}) \\
> L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})\times\mathbf{E} \to\mathbf{F}
> $$
> these maps are defined by composition of mappings.

*Proof.* Trivial.

---

> If $\mathbf{E}_1,\cdots,\mathbf{E}_r,\mathbf{F}$ are Banach spaces, then the canonical map
> $$
> L(\mathbf{E}_1,L(\mathbf{E}_2,\cdots,L(\mathbf{E}_r,\mathbf{F})\cdots)) \to L(\mathbf{E}_1,\mathbf{E}_2,\cdots,\mathbf{E}_r;\mathbf{F})
> $$
> is a toplinear and norm-preserving isomorphism.

*Proof.* Trivial.