## Step mapping

We are considering an easy case of the Bochner integral, namely from $\mathbb{R}$ to a Banach space $\mathbf{E}$. Let $I$ denote a real, closed interval, namely $I=[a,b]$. A **step mapping** is a simple mapping
$$
\begin{aligned}
f:I &\to \mathbf{E} \\
x &\mapsto \sum_{j=1}^{n}\chi_{I_j}\alpha_j
\end{aligned}
$$
where $I_j$ denotes disjoint sub-interval (it can be open, closed, or neither). In this case, we denotes its integral by
$$
\int_a^b f(t)dt=\sum_{j=1}^{n}m(I_j)\alpha_j
$$
where $m$ is the Lebesgue measure.

## Uniform convergence and ruled mapping

Let $\mathbf{E}$ be a Banach space. Given a sequence of mappings $\{f_n:I \to \mathbf{E}\}$, we say it converges uniformly if, given a open neighborhood $W$ of $0$ in $\mathbf{E}$, there exists some $n_0$ such that, for all $m,n>n_0$, we have
$$
\{y=f_n(t)-f_m(t):t \in I\}\subset W.
$$
The sequence $\{f_n\}$ converges to a mapping $f:I \to \mathbf{E}$.

A **ruled** mapping is a uniform limit of step mappings. This can of course be generalized in TVS, but we are not going that further.

> Every continuous function $f: I \to \mathbf{E}$ is ruled.

*Proof.* Since $f$ is continuous on $I$, $f$ is uniformly continuous. For any $\varepsilon>0$, there exists some $\delta>0$ such that
$$
\lVert f(x)-f(y) \rVert \in W_\varepsilon=\{r\in\mathbf{E}:\lVert r\rVert<\varepsilon\}
$$
or simply we write
$$
\lVert f(x)-f(y) \rVert < \varepsilon
$$
for all $x,y \in I$ such that
$$
|x-y|<\delta.
$$
The function $f_n$ is defined by
$$
f_n(x)=
f\left(a+\left\lfloor\frac{n(x-a)}{b-a}\right\rfloor\frac{b-a}{n}\right)
$$
Pick $n_0=\left\lceil{\frac{b-a}{\delta}}\right\rceil +1> \frac{b-a}{\delta}$. For $m,n \geq n_0$, we have
$$
\Vert f_m(x)-f_n(x)\rVert=\left\Vert{f(a+\Delta_m)-f(a+\Delta_n)}\right\Vert
$$
where
$$
\Delta_m=\left\lfloor\frac{m(x-a)}{b-a}\right\rfloor\frac{b-a}{m}
$$
Meanwhile
$$
\begin{aligned}
|(a+\Delta_m)-(a+\Delta_n)|&=|\Delta_m-\Delta_n| \\
&\leq\frac{b-a}{n_0}<\delta
\end{aligned}
$$
Therefore we got
$$
\lVert f_m(x)-f_n(x)\rVert < \varepsilon
$$
as long as $m,n \geq n_0$. With that being said, continuous function on $I$ is ruled.

---

**Remark.** You may find it's tricky to estimate $|\Delta_m-\Delta_n|$, but actually it's not. In fact one only needs to put $r_m=\left\lfloor\frac{m(x-a)}{b-a}\right\rfloor$, and it follows
$$
(x-a)-\frac{b-a}{m}<r_m\frac{b-a}{m}=\Delta_m\leq x-a.
$$
Likewise,
$$
-(x-a)\leq -r_n\frac{b-a}{n}=-\Delta_n<\frac{b-a}{n}-(x-a),
$$
therefore
$$
-\frac{b-a}{m}<\Delta_m-\Delta_n<\frac{b-a}{n}.
$$
It follows that
$$
|\Delta_m-\Delta_n|<\frac{b-a}{\min\{m,n\}}\leq\frac{b-a}{n_0}.
$$


> Let $T \in L(\mathbf{E},\mathbb{R})$ be continuous, and $f: I \to \mathbf{E}$ be ruled, then $Tf=T \circ f$ is ruled.

*Proof.* Suppose $f_n \to f$ uniformly, we shall prove that $Tf_n \to Tf$ uniformly. To do this, we need a lemma.

> **Lemma.** For a linear transformation $T \in L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$, each of the following three conditions implies the other two.
>
> 1. $T$ is bounded.
> 2. $T$ is continuous.
> 3. $T$ is continuous at one point.
>
> *Proof.* We shall prove that $1 \to 2 \to 3 \to 1$. 
>
> Suppose first $T$ is bounded. For $\varepsilon>0$, pick $\delta=\frac{\varepsilon}{\lVert T \rVert}$. For $\lVert x - y \rVert<\delta$, we see
> $$
> \lVert Tx-Ty\rVert=\lVert T(x-y)\rVert\leq\lVert T \rVert\lVert x-y \rVert<\varepsilon
> $$
> Therefore $1$ implies $2$. $2$ implies $3$ trivially. Suppose then $T$ is continuous at $x_0$. To each $\varepsilon>0$, we can find some $\delta>0$ such that for $\lVert x \rVert<\delta$, we have
> $$
> \lVert T(x_0+x)-Tx_0\rVert = \lVert Tx\rVert<\varepsilon
> $$
> By definition of $\lVert T \rVert$, we have $\lVert T \rVert \leq \frac{\varepsilon}{\delta}$. Therefore $3$ implies $1$.

Without loss of generality, we assume that $\lVert T \rVert=1$. For $\varepsilon>0$, there exists some $n_0$ such that for $m,n \geq n_0$, we have
$$
\lVert f_m(t) - f_n(t) \rVert<\varepsilon
$$
for all $t \in I$. Meanwhile
$$
\lVert Tf_m(t)-Tf_n(t)\rVert \leq \lVert T \rVert\lVert f_m(t) - f_n(t) \rVert<\varepsilon
$$
Therefore $Tf$ is ruled.

## Bochner integral of ruled mappings

If $\{f_n\}$ is a sequence of step mapping converges uniformly to $f$, that is, $f$ is ruled, then we denotes the limit by
$$
\int_{a}^{b}f(t)dt=\lim_{n\to\infty}\int_a^bf_n(t)dt.
$$

We observe that Bochner integral is linear for ruled mappings.

> Let $T \in L(\mathbf{E},\mathbb{R})$ be continuous, and $f: I \to \mathbf{E}$ be ruled, then
> $$
> T\int_a^bf(t)dt=\int_a^bTf(t)dt
> $$

*Proof.* Suppose $f_n \to f$ uniformly, we already know that $Tf_n \to Tf$ uniformly. 

## Taylor's theorem and mean value theorem

> Let $\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F}$ be Banach spaces. Let $U$ be open in $\mathbf{E}$. Let $x,y$ be two points in $U$ such that the segment $x+ty$ lies in $U$ for $0 \leq t \leq 1$. Let
> $$
> f:U \to \mathbf{F}
> $$
> be a $C^p$-morphism, and denote $y^{(p)}$ by the $p$-tuple $(y,\cdots,y)$. Then the function $D^pf(x+ty)\cdot y^{(p)}$ is continuous in $t$, and we have
> $$
> \begin{aligned}
> f(x+y)=&f(x)+\frac{Df(x)y}{1!}+\cdots+\frac{D^{p-1}f(x)y^{(p-1)}}{(p-1)!}\\
> &+\int_0^1\frac{(1-t)^{p-1}}{(p-1)!}D^p(f+ty)y^{(p)}dt.
> \end{aligned}
> $$

*Proof.*

### Corollaries

> Let $\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F}$ be two Banach spaces, $U$ open in $\mathbf{E}$. and $x,z$ two distinct points of $U$ such that $x+t(z-x)$ lies in $U$. Let $f: U \to \mathbf{F}$ be continuous and of class $C^1$, then we have
> $$
> \lVert f(z) - f(x) \rVert \leq \lVert z-x \rVert \sup\lVert f'(\zeta)\rVert
> $$
> where the sup is taken over $\zeta$ in the segment.

*Proof.*



> Under the same hypothesis, let $x_0$ be a point on the segment between $x$ and $z$, then we also have
> $$
> \lVert f(z)-f(x)-f'(x_0)(z-x)\rVert \leq \lVert z-x \rVert\sup\lVert f'(\zeta)-f(x_0)\rVert
> $$
> where the sup is taken over all $\zeta$ on the segment.

### Remainder

> Under the hypothesis of Taylor's theorem, with $x$ fixed, the remainder 
> $$
> \theta(y)=\int_0^1\frac{(1-t)^{p-1}}{(p-1)!}D^P(f+ty)y^{(p)}dt.
> $$
> satisfies
> $$
> \lim_{y \to 0}\frac{\theta(y)}{\lVert y\rVert^p}=0
> $$
> 

