## Topological Space

### Definition

A topological space $(X,\tau)$ is a set $X$ with a collection $\tau$ of subsets such that

1. $X \in \tau$, $\varnothing \in \tau$.
2. $ \bigcup_{\alpha}A_\alpha \in \tau$ for some $\alpha \in A$ and $A_\alpha \in \tau$. That is, $\tau$ is closed under *arbitrary* union.
3. $\bigcap_{k=1}^{n}A_n \in \tau$ for $A_n \in \tau$. That is, $\tau$ is closed under arbitrary union and finite intersections.

The members of $\tau$ are called *open sets*. The complement of open sets (with respect to $X$) are called closed sets. A set is closed if and only if the complement is open.

### Neighborhood

A neighborhood of a point $x \in X$ is any open set $U_x$ such that $x \in U_x$ (and of course, $U_x \in \tau$).

### Hausdorff space

A topological space $X$ is called Hausdorff if, for any $x,y\in X$ where $x \neq y$, there exists some $U_x,U_y \in \tau$ such that $x \in U_x$, $y \in U_y$, $U_x \cap U_y = \varnothing$.

### Continuous function

If $(X,\tau_X)$ and $(Y,\tau_Y)$ are topological spaces and if $f$ is a mapping of $X$ into $Y$, then $f$ is said to be continuous, provided that for every $V \in \tau_Y$, we always have $f^{-1}(V) \in \tau_X$.

A continuous function $f$ will be called a homeomorphism if $f$ is one-to-one, and $f^{-1}$ is continuous.

### Base and local base

A collection $\tau' \subset \tau$ is a base for $\tau$ if every member of $\tau$ is a union of members of $\tau'$. A collection $\tau_p$ of neighborhoods of a point $p \in X$ is a local base at $p$ if every neighborhood of $p$ contains a member of $\tau_p$.

## Vector Space

Algebraically speaking, a vector space $V$ is a module over a field $\mathbb{K}$. The fundamental properties of a vector spaces can be shown as two different algebraic object.

#### Abelian group (addition)

For $x,y \in V$, there corresponds a vector $x+y$, in such a way that
$$
x+y=y+x \quad\text{and}\quad (x+y)+z=x+(y+z)
$$
$V$ contains a unique vector $0$ such that for any $x \in V$, $x+0=x$. Further, to each $x \in V$, there corresponds a unique vector $-x$ such that $x+(-x)=0$.

Indeed, these properties make $V$ an abelian group.

#### Module (scalar multiplication)

To every pair $(\alpha,x)$ with $\alpha \in \mathbb{K}$ and $x \in V$, there corresponds a vector $\alpha{x}$, in such a way that
$$
1x=x,\quad \alpha(\beta{x})=(\alpha\beta)x
$$
and such that the two following distributive laws hold:
$$
\alpha(x+y)=\alpha{x}+\alpha{y},\quad (\alpha+\beta)x=\alpha{x}+\beta{x}
$$


## Topological Vector Space

Let $V$ be a vector space endowed with a topology $\tau$. The pair $(V,\tau)$ is called a topological vector space if

1. For every $x \in V$, the set $\{x\}$ is a closed set.
2. The vector space operations are continuous with respect to $\tau$.

#### Locally convex

It will be to assume that the space to be discussed (for example, $\mathbb{R}^n$) is Hausdorff (as mentioned above) and locally convex.

A space is called locally convex, if every neighborhood of $0$ contains an open neighborhood $U$ of $0$ such that, for $x,y \in U$ and $0 \leq t \leq 1$, we have $tx+(1-t)y \in U$.