## Different kinds of linear maps

Before we start, notice that all TVS's mentioned here are locally convex Banach spaces (for example, $\mathbb{R}^n$).

### Linear maps and multilinear maps

For Banach spaces $\mathbf{E}$ and $\mathbf{F}$, the set of all continuous linear mappings is denoted by $L(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$. The set of continuous $k$-multilinear maps, namely
$$
\psi: \underbrace{\mathbf{E} \times \mathbf{E} \times \cdots \times \mathbf{E}}_{k-\text{times}} \to \mathbf{F}
$$
of $\mathbf{E}$ into $\mathbf{F}$, will be denoted by $L^k(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$.

### Special cases of multilinear maps

There are two special cases that are useful in the following texts. We will describe them and offer notations.

#### Symmetric

Symmetric multilinear maps are literally order-changing free. For example, $f \in L^2(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$ will be symmetric if $f(x,y)=f(y,x)$ no matter what. We have a formal statement.

> A function of $n$ variables is symmetric if its value is the same no matter the order of its arguments.

The subset of $L^k(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$, which contains all symmetric maps, will be denoted by $L^k_s(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$. Here, $s$ means symmetric of course.

#### Alternating

An alternating multilinear map got value zero whenever two arguments are equal. For example, if you treat the row of a squared $n$-matrix as an element of $\mathbb{R}^n$, then the determinant of the matrix is alternating. We have a formal statement as well.

>A multilinear map $f \in L^k(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$ is said to be alternating if whenever there exists $1 \leq i \neq j \leq n$ such that $x_i=x_j$, then $f(x_1,\cdots,x_i,\cdots,x_j,\cdots,x_k)=0$

The subset of $L^k(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$, which contains all alternating maps, will be denoted by $L^k_s(\mathbf{E},\mathbf{F})$.

## Several useful theorems in analysis

