## Definition of category

A category $\mathcal{C}$ consists of a collection of objects $\operatorname{Ob}(\mathcal{C})$. For two objects $A,B \in \operatorname{Ob}(\mathcal{C})$, a set $\operatorname{Mor}(A,B)$ is called the set of morphisms of $A$ into $B$. Pick $A,B,C \in \operatorname{Ob}(\mathcal{C})$, a law of composition or a map
$$
\operatorname{Mor}(A,B)\times\operatorname{Mor}(B,C) \to \operatorname{Mor}(A,C)
$$
satisfies the following axioms.

> 1. **(Disjointness)** Two sets $\operatorname{Mor}(A,B)$ and $\operatorname{Mor}(A',B')$ are always disjoint, unless $A=A'$ and $B=B'$, in which case they are equal.
> 2. **(Identity)** For each object $A \in \operatorname{Ob}(\mathcal{C})$ , there is a morphism $\operatorname{id_A}\in\operatorname{Mor}(A,A)$ which acts as left and right identity for the elements of $\operatorname{Mor}(A,B)$ and $\operatorname{Mor}(B,A) $ respectively, for all $B \in \operatorname{Ob}(\mathcal{C})$.
> 3. **(Associativity)** The law of composition is associative when defined.

To explain the identity, for any $f_{AB} \in \operatorname{Mor}(A,B)$,  we have
$$
(\operatorname{id_A},f_{AB}) \mapsto f_{AB}
$$
In fact we can write it as
$$
f_{AB} \circ\operatorname{id_A}=f_{AB}
$$
since we write the composition of an element $g \in \operatorname{Mor}(B,C)$ and an element of $f \in \operatorname{Mor}(A,B)$ as $g \circ f$, to suggest the **composition of mappings**. Similar result holds for $\operatorname{Mor}(B,A)$.

Given $f \in \operatorname{Mor}(A,B)$, $g \in \operatorname{Mor}(B,C)$, $h \in \operatorname{Mor}(C,D)$, we have
$$
(h \circ g)\circ f = h \circ(g \circ f)
$$
for all $A,B,C,D \in \operatorname{Ob}(\mathcal{C})$.

For $f \in \operatorname{Mor}(A,B)$, we oftentimes write $f : X \to Y$ or $X \xrightarrow{f}Y$.

## Different kinds of morphisms

A morphism of an object $A$ into itself is called an **endomorphism**. The set of endomorphisms of $A$ is denoted by $\operatorname{End}(A)$ or sometimes $\operatorname{End}_{\mathcal{C}}(A)$ when the category should be emphasized. By the axiom 2 and 3 of category, $\operatorname{End}(A)$ forms a monoid.

A morphism $f$ is called an **isomorphism** if there exists a morphism $g: B \to A$ such that $g \circ f$ and $f \circ g$ are the identities of $\operatorname{Mor}(A,A)$ and $\operatorname{Mor}(B,B)$ respectively. Finally, if an endomorphism is also an isomorphism, we call it an **automorphism**. The set of automorphisms of $A$ is denoted by $\operatorname{Aut}(A)$, which forms a group since the inverse always exists.

## Definition of functors

Let $\mathcal{A}$, $\mathcal{B}$ be two categories. A **covariant functor** $\lambda$ of $\mathcal{A}$ into $\mathcal{B}$ is a rule which, to each object $A \in \mathcal{A}$, there associates an object $\lambda(A) \in \mathcal{B}$; to each morphism $f:A \to B$, there associates a morphism $\lambda(f): \lambda(A) \to \lambda(B)$. There are two axioms to be satisfied.

> 1. For all $A \in \mathcal{A}$, we have $\lambda(\operatorname{id}_A)=\operatorname{id}_{\lambda(A)}$
> 2. If $f:A \to B$ and $g: B \to C$ are two morphisms of $\mathcal{A}$, then
>
> $$
> \lambda(g \circ f)=\lambda(g) \circ \lambda(f)
> $$

The **contravariant functors** from $\mathcal{A}$ to $\mathcal{B}$ can be defined by reversing the arrows in covariant functors. To each morphism $f:A \to B$, the contravariant functor associates a morphism
$$
\lambda(f): \lambda(B) \to \lambda(A).
$$
Also, if
$$
f: A \to B \quad \text{ and }\quad g:B \to C
$$
are morphisms in $\mathcal{A}$, then
$$
\lambda(g \circ f)=\lambda(f) \circ \lambda(g)
$$

## Universal objects

Let $\mathcal{A}$ be a category. An object $P$ of $\mathcal{A}$ is called **universally attracting** if there exists a unique morphism of each object of $\mathcal{A}$ into $P$. Conversely, $P$ is called **universally compelling** if for every object of $\mathcal{A}$, there exists a unique morphism of $P$ into its object. When the context makes our meaning clear, we shall call objects $P$ as above **universal**.

If $P,Q$ are two universal objects of $\mathcal{A}$, then there exists a unique isomorphism between $P$ and $Q$. To see this, check the axiom 2 of category.