The Bochner integral is the natural generalization of the familiar Lebesgue integral, where we only discuss real or complex functions. Throughout the whole section, we use $(X, \mathfrak{M},\mu)$ to denote a $\sigma$-finite measure space.

## Definition

> A function $f:A \to \mathbf{E}$ is $\mu$-Bochner integrable if there exists a sequence of $\mu$-simple functions $f_n: A \to \mathbf{E}$ such that the following two conditions are met:
>
> 1. $\lim_{n \to \infty}f_n=f$ a.e. $[\mu]$. 
> 2. $\lim_{n\to\infty}\int_{A}\lVert f_n - f \rVert d\mu=0$.

If $f$ satisfies 1, then we say $f$ is strongly $\mu$-measurable. The measurability of $\lVert f_n - f \rVert$ follows from **Pettis measurability theorem**.

It follows trivially that every $\mu$-simple function is $\mu$-Bochner integrable. For $f_N=\sum_{n=1}^{N}\alpha_n\chi_{A_n}$, we put
$$
\int_{X}f_Nd\mu=\sum_{n=1}^{N}\alpha_n\mu(A_n).
$$
For if $f$ is $\mu$-Bochner integrable, the limit
$$
\int_{X}fd\mu:=\lim_{n\to\infty}\int_{A}f_nd\mu
$$
exists in $\mathbf{E}$ and is called the Bochner integral of $f$ with respect to $\mu$. Notice that $\alpha_n \in \mathbf{E}$, we get
$$
\int_{X}fd\mu\in\mathbf{E}.
$$
That is, the integral is vector-valued.

## Fundamental properties

Many properties of Lebesgue integral can be naturally 'upgraded' to Bochner integral. Here we are going to show some frequently used ones.

### Integrability

> A strongly $\mu$-measurable function $f: X \to \mathbf{E}$ is $\mu$-Bochner integrable if and only if
> $$
> \int_{X}\lVert f \rVert d\mu<\infty,
> $$
> in which case
> $$
> \left\Vert\int_{X}fd\mu \right\Vert \leq \int_{X}\lVert f \rVert d\mu.
> $$



### Dominated convergence theorem

> Let $f_n: X \to \mathbf{E}$ be a sequence of $\mu$-Bochner integrable functions. Assume that there exists a function $f: X \to \mathbf{E}$ and a $\mu$-Bochner integrable function $g: X \to \mathbb{K}$ such that
>
> 1. $\lim_{n \to \infty}f_n=f$ a.e. $[\mu]$.
> 2. $\lVert \mu \rVert \leq |g|$ a.e. $[\mu]$.
>
> Then $f$ is $\mu$-Bochner integrable and we have
> $$
> \lim_{n \to \infty}\int_{X}f_nd\mu=\int_{X}fd\mu,
> $$
> or equivalently,
> $$
> \lim_{n \to \infty}\int_{X}\lVert f_n - f \rVert d\mu =  0.
> $$

### Bochner integral being linear