## Charts

A $m$-dimensional chart $(U,\varphi)$ on $M$ is a set $U \subset M$ together with a map $\varphi: U \to\mathbb{R}^m$ such that $\varphi(U)$ is open in $\mathbb{R}^m$ and $\varphi$ is a bijection from $U$ to $\varphi(U)$. If a point $x \in \mathbb{R}^m$ lies in $U$, we say that $(U,\varphi)$ is a **chart at** $x$.

### Examples

#### Trivial chart

Every open subset $U \subset \mathbb{R}^m$ can form a chart, namely $(U,\varphi)=(U,\operatorname{id}_U)$, where $\operatorname{id}_U$ denotes the identity map of $U$.

#### Graph

Assume now $W \subset \mathbb{R}^n$ and $V \subset \mathbb{R}^n$ are open sets, and that $M$ is a subset of the product $\mathbb{R}^m \times \mathbb{R}^n$, and $f:W \to V$ is a map satisfying
$$
\operatorname{graph}(f)=\{(x,y)\in W \times V:x \in W,y=f(x)\} \subset M
$$
Let $U=(W \times V) \cap \operatorname{graph}(f)$ and let $\varphi(x,y)=x$ be the projection of $U$ to $W$. Then the pair $(U,\varphi)$ is a chart on $M$, whose inverse is defined by $\varphi^{-1}(x)=(x,f(x))$.

For example, let $W=(-\pi/2,\pi/2)$, $V=\mathbb{R}$, $M=W \times V$, and $f=\tan{x}$. In this case, one can easily verify that
$$
U=\{(x,y)\in M:x \in (-\pi/2,\pi/2),y=\tan{x}\}
$$
and $(U,\varphi)$ is a chart. Typically we have $\varphi(U)=\mathbb{R}$, $\varphi(\mathbb{R})=U$.

### Compatible charts

Two charts $(U,\varphi),(V,\psi)$ are called **compatible** if the subsets $\varphi(U \cap V)$ and $\psi(U \cap V)$ are open, and the transition map
$$
\psi \circ \varphi^{-1}: \varphi(U \cap V) \to \psi(U \cap V)
$$
is a diffeomorphism.

#### Basic facts

> 1. The relation of compatibility of charts forms an equivalence relation.
> 2. Charts with $U \cap V = \varnothing$ are always compatible.

## Atlas

Let $M$ be a set. A $m$-dimensional atlas on $M$ is a collection of $m$-dimensional charts $(U_\alpha,\varphi_\alpha)$ such that

1. $(U_\alpha,\varphi_\alpha)$ and $(U_\beta,\varphi_\beta)$ are always compatible for all indexes $\alpha$ and $\beta$.
2. $U_\alpha$ covers $M$.

If one treat $U_\alpha$ as open sets while $\varphi_\alpha$ are homeomorphisms, one will find that an atlas gives a **topological space**. 

Suppose $\mathscr{A}$ is an $m$-dimensional atlas on $M$, and let $(U,\varphi)$ be another chart. Then $(U,\varphi)$ is said to be compatible with $\mathscr{A}$ if it's compatible with all charts $(U_i,\varphi_i)\in \mathscr{A}$. Generally, two atlases are said to be **compatible** if each chart of one is compatible with the other atlas. This relation of compatibility also forms an equivalence relation. An equivalence relation of atlas on $M$ is said to **define a structure** of manifolds on $M$.

### Coordinate

A chart $(U,\varphi)$ or namely
$$
\varphi:U \to \mathbb{R}^n
$$
is given by $n$ coordinate functions $\varphi_1,\cdots,\varphi_n$. For $P \in U$, these functions are often written
$$
x_1(P),\cdots,x_n(P)
$$
or simply $x_1,\cdots,x_n$. They are called **local coordinates** on the manifold.