## Definitions

Let $X$ be a topological space. A covering $\{U_i\}$ of $X$ is **locally finite** if every point has a neighborhood which intersects only finitely many elements of the covering $\{U_i\}$. A **refinement** is another covering $\{U'_i\}$. For each $U_j'$, there exists some $i$ such that $U_j' \subset U_i$.

A topological space $X$ is **paracompact** if it is Hausdorff, and every open covering has a locally finite refinement. Further, $X$ is a **normal** space if it satisfies Axiom $T_4$. That is, given any disjoint closed set $E$ and $F$, there are neighborhoods $U \supset E$ and $V \supset F$ such that $U$ and $V$ are also disjoint. $X$ is a **regular** space if, given any closed set $F$ and any point $x \notin F$, there exists a neighborhood $U$ of $x$ and a neighborhood $V$ of $F$ such that $U \cap V = \varnothing$. 

## Propositions

### Existence of 'regular' refinement

> If $X$ is a paracompact space, and if $\{U_i\}$ is an open covering, then there exists a locally finite open covering $\{V_i\}$ such that $V_i \subset U_i$ for each $i$. 

#### Proof

Let $\{V_k\}$ be a locally finite open refinement of $\{U_i\}$. For each $k$, there exists an index $i(k)$ such that $V_k \subset U_{i(k)}$. This comes from the definition of paracompactness.

Define
$$
W_i=\bigcup_{k}^{i(k)=i}V_k
$$
Then $\{W_i\}$ has the desired property. Firstly, since $i(k)=i$ for these $k$, we have $V_k \subset U_{i(k)}=U_i$, thus $W_i \subset U_i$. Second, $\{W_i\}$ is locally finite. If not, there exists some point $p$ that meets infinitely many $W_i$. But each $W_i$ is a union of $V_k$'s, therefore $p$ meets infinitely many $V_k$, in which case $\{V_k\}$ is not locally finite.

### Paracompactness implies normality

> If $X$ is paracompact, then $X$ is normal

#### Proof

##### Step 1 - paracompactness implies regularity

Firstly we show that $X$ is regular. Pick a closed set $A \subset X$ and $q \in X-A$. For each $p \in A$ we can choose disjoint neighborhoods $U_p$ and $W_q$ of $p$ and $q$ respectively. Adding $X-A$ to the collection $\{U_p\}_{p \in A}$ gives an open cover of $X$ which has open, locally finite refinement $\{V_i\}_{i \in I}$ since $X$ is paracompact. Set
$$
J=\{i \in I: V_i \cap A=\varnothing\},
$$
and
$$
W=\bigcup_{j \in J }V_j.
$$
Then $A \subset W$. Since each $V_j$ is contained i some $U_p$, we have
$$
q \notin\overline{W}=\bigcup_{j \in J}\overline{V}_j
$$


### Shrinking lemma

> If $\{U_i\}$ is a locally finite open covering of a paracompact space $X$, then there exists a locally finite open covering $\{V_i\}$ such that $\overline{V_i} \subset U_i$. 